# Introduction to C
To introduce to c, let's make a simple hello world program and let's analyze line by line.

### Hello world.c
```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
	printf("Hello, World!\n");
	return 0;
}
```
This example is one of the most simple c program that can 'interact' with the user without use something so marvelous as assembly.

Well we want to inspect code so:
- `#include <stdio.h>`	
	This line tells to the compiler to include the header for io operations defined in the standard lib c, most standard lib headers contains as prefix std. This let us to **print** something to the console (**I/O** is a abbreviation for **Input**/**Output**).
- `int main(int argc, char **argv){`
	Well this line could blow your mind to a lot of new things, but the main reason to this line is the definition of the start-point function, this function is the start of every program compiled in c, and you could see something similar in languages as Java.
	You could be question why the main function need to return a integer value, well in Unix-like SO and other SO, the return of the main function is important to determine the state of an end in a process. This state need to be 0 to interpret as Succesful exit, and any other value as error.
- `printf("Hello, World!\n);"`
	This line calls to the printf function that would write the provided string to the **stdout** (a.k.a The console).
	

### Basic types in c
If you already used java, some syntax could be quite similar, but in c the target arquitecture may vary the size of the types.
In a x86_64/AMD64 architecture the types are:
- `char`  the smallest type, ocuppies only 1 Byte in memory, and be interpreted as a character value or as numeric value. (In any architecture is 1 Byte)
- `short` huh, this is something strange this keyword works as modifier and a type, `short` is an abbreviation of  `short int`, that makes more sense that only short, ocuppies 2 Bytes.
- `int` the most extended keywords in programming language, this type represents an integer value, ocuppies 4 Bytes in memory.
- `long` or `long int` the same case as `short`, work like an modifier and type, represent the max register length of the processor, in x86_64 is 64 bits (8 Bytes).
- `float` The float-point type represent values as $3.141592$ with a length of 32 bits (4 Bytes), there is not a short float due x86_64 not have a fpu to work with 16-bits float values, the format of decimal values are defined by [IEEE-754 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-precision_floating-point_format).
- `double` or `double` represent, as its name sound, the double length for the float type 64-bits (8 bytes), the format of the decimal values are defines by [IEEE-754 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-precision_floating-point_format).

#### Modifiers
The Integer types has the following modifiers:
- `signed` Implicit by default, all types are signed by default, explicitly say that the variable must be signed, signed int are coded by [base-2 complement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two%27s_complement).
- `unsigned` makes to the variable that has this, to avoid the base 2 complement, and are interpreted like any other binary number.
- `short`, `long` are described before, but its effect depend on the architecture and compiler, most case is to divide by 2 and duplicate the size of the int type.
