# Functions in C
The function are the base in the c language, it allow to divide the code in more blocks, and let reuse without duplicate.

## Basic syntax
```c
<return_type> function_name([args,..]) {
	// code body
	[return [<value>];]
}
```
- The `<return_type>` is the type of the data that the function would return, set to `void` to return nothing.
- `[args, ...]` is the optional array of arguments defined as `type arg_name` that the function accept, set to `void` to make the functio to receive no value, if we let it with nothing like `... function(){...}` the function would accept any values as input.
- `return [<value>];` this sentence end the function flow, the parameter `<value>` is required only if `<return_type>` is different to `void`.

## Definition vs Implementation
In c we can define a function signature without implement it, but why?
Well this is a way to define a function whitout explicitly write the code, this let to the programmer to only `#include <libheader.h>` do one time without need to adapt to other library, due only need to link to another object file.
And the other answer is to 'hide' the code to the developer, this is important if a library use some global variable that sould not be able to see by the developer but yes for the library functions. This is a super primitive type of 'encapsulation' ,but has its disadvantages.

The implementation mostly is written in `*.c` files this allow to reduce the size in the use of library, due the full impelemention is not explicitly needed for someone that is using a function.