# System calls
In UNIX-like S.O the kernel manage system calls to make low level things, most common low level system calls is the `read` and `write` to a file in a block device or to a hardware by its kernel driver.

## List of System calls

## Open
The **open** system call open a file in the filesystem, if the file is a device, the result is handled by its driver, but if is a simple file, the kernel only open the content of that file in binary mode.
- Requires the `fcntl.h` header, due its contains the **MACROS** that determine the behavior of the opening.
**COMMON MACROS:**
- `O_CREAT` <- This macro **create** a file **if not exists**.
- `O_TRUNC` <- This macro truncate the file (set the cursor at the start of file). You may be careful with this flag, due would overwrite the file content.
- `O_APPEND` <- This macro set the cursor at the end of the previous content in the file.
- `O_RDONLY` <- This macro says that the file only would be open for **reading** operations.
- `O_RDWR` <- This macro say that the file would be open either for **read and write**.
- `O_WRONLY` <- This macro say that the file only would be open for **writing** operations.

open has an extra flags, that are called `mode`, this flags would control the UNIX permission attributes of the file. Mostly used would be:
- `S_IRWXU` <- Gives to the file all the permissions for the current user.
- `S_IRUSR` <- Give to the file the permission to read.
- `S_IWUSR` <- Give to the file the permission to write.
- `S_IXUSR` <- Give to the file the permission to execute.
Other permission has the next syntax:
`S_I<permission><target>`
- `<permission>` <- `R` for read, `W` for write, `X` for execution.
- `<target>` <- This target is the entity to what give permission, in UNIX there is 3 entities
	  - `USR` or `U`,if give multiple permission, the **User** owner of this file 
	  - `GRP` or `G`, if give multiple permission, the **Group** owner of the file.
	  - `OTH` or `O`, if give multiple permission, the **Others** users/groups that would exists in the host machine.

## Read
The **_read_** system call do what it's name say, read _data_ from _something_, most commonly Hard drives, SSD, etc.
You can show the documentation of the system call by the command `man 2 read`.
To use the `read` system call you need to include the next header files:
- `fcntl.h` (**F**ile **C**o**nt**ro**l** options) contains the syscall, and some macros 

## Write

### Close
This system call closes the given **file descriptor**, and don't do something more.
The header file is the same as [[#Read]].
- `close(<file descriptor>);`